The President:
This weekend, folks across the
country are opening up the pool,
firing up the grill, and taking
a well-earned moment to relax.
But Memorial Day is more
than a three-day weekend.
In town squares and
national cemeteries,
in public services and
moments of quiet reflection,
we will honor those who
loved their country enough to
sacrifice their
own lives for it.
This Memorial Day, Michelle and
I will join Gold Star families,
veterans, and their families
at Arlington National Cemetery.
We'll pay tribute to patriots
of every generation who gave the
last full measure of devotion,
from Lexington and Concord to
Iraq and Afghanistan.
Later that day, we'll join
Vietnam veterans and their
families at the Vietnam
Veterans Memorial -- the Wall.
We'll begin to mark the 50th
anniversary of the Vietnam War.
It's another chance to honor
those we lost at places like
Hue and Khe Sanh, Danang
and Hamburger Hill.
And we'll be calling on you
-- the American people --
to join us in thanking
our Vietnam veterans in
your communities.
Even as we honor those who
made the ultimate sacrifice,
we reaffirm our commitment
to care for those who served
alongside them -- the
veterans who came home.
This includes our newest
generation of veterans,
from Iraq and Afghanistan.
We have to serve them and their
families as well as they have
served us: By making sure that
they get the health care and
benefits they need; by caring
for our wounded warriors and
supporting our
military families;
and by giving veterans the
chance to go to college,
find a good job, and enjoy
the freedom that they risked
everything to protect.
Our men and women in uniform
took an oath to defend our
country at all costs, and
today, as members of the finest
military the world
has ever known,
they uphold that oath
with dignity and courage.
As President, I have no higher
honor than serving as their
Commander-in-Chief.
But with that honor comes
a solemn responsibility --
one that gets driven home every
time I sign a condolence letter,
or meet a family member
whose life has been turned
upside down.
No words can ever bring back
a loved one who has been lost.
No ceremony can do
justice to their memory.
No honor will ever
fill their absence.
But on Memorial Day, we come
together as Americans to let
these families and veterans
know they are not alone.
We give thanks for those who
sacrificed everything so that we
could be free.
And we commit ourselves to
upholding the ideals for which
so many patriots
have fought and died.
Thank you, God bless you,
and have a wonderful weekend.